hey there thanks for joining me on this
tutorial of pet massage this is my doggy
Takota and he is 10 years old mmm some
while back he was limping pretty bad and
so you know we took him to the vet quite
a bit and he got diagnosed with
arthritis from there I our vet offers
acupuncture so we got him some
acupuncture it works so great we found
another lady that was doing it and a
more comfortable setting for Takota
and now we do it about once to twice a
year really about the season change is
when we notice him limping a little bit
again so we just you know if we see him
limping take them in it is quite
expensive but it does work now in
between sometimes you know he'll be a
little sore and so here are some
techniques that I've learned along the
way of rubbing out my buddy who has
arthritis and I'm making his day you
know a little bit easier okay so here's
Takota
and first I just kind of stay he doesn't
always like this and maybe your doggie
or your Schulte doesn't either but you
just have to make them stay and so you
can put your arm around underneath here
and just gently make them stay and then
so I'm squeezing together gently sit
Dakota Dakota sit Dakota sit good boy so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
kind of pinch together I'm going to take
my fingers gently and I'm going to just
go down a spine and I'm going to pull up
and then I'm going to feel for tension
and when I feel some tension he'll
actually twitch a little bit on his back
and so then I will rub that spot out I'm
going to swing the camera around and I'm
going to show you what I'm doing okay
I'm just going to work with him the way
that he'll work with me and so that's
the important part is not to be
squeezing too tight on your dog but just
gently and
you can take if you feel the tension you
take two hands together so you're gonna
rub down gently pinch up a little bit
let's go does a little bit bigger so
I'll take one hand and I'll actually
hold it but as I go along first I start
down his spine and I make sure he's all
loose he actually feels pretty loose
right now and if you see your dog
yawning you know that he's working into
it so normally Takota has a lot of
tension up here and I'll pinch and go
he'll actually twitch a little bit and
then I rub on it now Takota I know he
has arthritis in his joints and up in
his little ankles up here so you know
he'll often lick them and like I said
when I see him just being tense then
this is one he really likes a lot and
you could just take the palms or your
hands don't use your fingertips unless
you're gonna go soup or gently in these
muscles and just take your hands and
just gently rub his muscles
you just feel along the muscles go down
you know just work them out real gently
run around whereas arthritis is you know
if I feel like I can feel tension
sometimes just because I do this I can
feel like exactly where it's tight and
it helps a lot and I hate seeing him
limp sometimes he'll sit and take this
and sometimes you won't but he was just
barking and kind of got in trouble so
just do it whenever you can so pretty
much that's it and then you know I just
go back through here and also I'll rub
the backs too so you know if I feel like
his tensions in his back end then I will
rub about these back muscles on his back
legs I never even realized that but when
I went to the acupuncture she said he
was holding a lot of tension
his back-end well if it looks like
Takamoto has had enough for today so
thanks so much for joining us